# Open-Source Digital Publishing with Quire

College Art Association

*February 23, 2018, 2–3:30pm*

In this workshop, participants will get hands on with Quire, a new open-source digital publishing framework from the Getty, aimed at scholarly and visual publishing needs, and built for publication discoverability and longevity. Quire is built on a static-site generator which allows you to publish in multiple formats (online, pdf, e-book and print), decrease dependencies and long-term maintenance issues, and keep source content in a human-readable format; all while still offering features like interactive maps, deep zoom images, linked citations, audio and video figures, and more. Participants will learn Quire basics including: getting up and running with basic command line tools; converting and editing content in Markdown and YAML (the two plain-text workhorses of the static-site world); the use of shortcodes to add rich content and interactivity; simple theme and style customizations; and publication hosting and distribution options.

This will be a fast-paced, hands-on technology workshop where participants will learn through simple examples that have a broad range of applications. Participants are encouraged to bring their laptops with them. Note that any operating system will work, though we can offer better support for Mac users. Those without laptops will be paired with others to follow along during the workshop. No prior experience is necessary.

## Syllabus:

- Introduction (10 mins)


- Install the tools and preview the starter site (15 mins | Terminal/Command Line)
  - Use the command line to install the basic software
  - Create a new site
  - Preview the site in your browser


- Update and add a title, author and other book metadata (15 mins | YAML, Quire data model)
  - Learn about the publication.yml file and basic yaml formatting rules
  - Update the sample with new metadata and preview the results
  - Discuss how the yaml is used in Quire projects (data vs. text)


- Edit a page, create a new one (15 mins | Markdown, Quire content structure)
  - Update values for page-specific yaml
  - Learn basic markdown format rules and try them out
  - Create a new page in your project (title, type, and weight)


- Work with shortcodes (15 mins | Quire shortcodes)
  - Learn about the basic shortcode syntax
  - Add figures to your project with the figure shortcode
  - Discuss other shortcodes


- Customize the design (10 mins | CSS, Hugo themes)
  - Add a cover background image
  - Customize the site colors
  - Discuss templates and themes


-  Wrap-up (10 mins)
  - Output your publication (online, epub and pdf/print)
  - Discuss hosting and distribution options
  - Looking ahead, joining the beta


---

Greg Albers, galbers@getty.edu

Quire Guide & Documentation: https://github.com/gettypubs/quire

Beta Request Form: http://bit.ly/quire-beta

We are looking for people to work with on improving our beta version. In exchange for your feedback on the tool, we'll be available to answer questions and guide you through issues. Plus, we'll be making changes based on your responses, so it's a great opportunity to shape the tool in ways that will suit your needs. If you're interested, please fill out the form at the link above and we'll be in touch with you soon.