# Quire Digital Publishing Platform: Demo and Q&A

National Museum Publishing Seminar

*May 3, 2018, 2–3:30pm*

NMPS attendees are invited to attend a preconference demo of Quire, the Getty’s new open-source digital-publishing tool. Designed to ensure discoverability and longevity, Quire is a multiformat publishing solution for museum and scholarly publishers interested in producing illustrated, open-access online publications ranging from collection catalogues to conference proceedings. Come see how Quire’s simultaneous creation of online, ebook, PDF, and print-on-demand editions might serve your institution’s needs.

## Syllabus:

- Introduction (15 mins)


- Start a new project and preview it in the browser (10 mins | Terminal/Command Line)
  - Navigate the command line with `cd` and `ls`
  - Create a new quire project with `quire new quire-demo`
  - Run a preview with `quire preview` and view it in a browser by visiting `http://localhost:1313`


- Navigate the project folder and update publication metadata (15 mins | Atom, YAML)
  - Review the key project folders: `content`, `data`, `static`, and sometimes `themes`
  - Learn about the `publication.yml` file
  - Update the demo with new metadata for the cover and preview the results
  - Discuss YAML formatting rules and how they break—try http://www.yamllint.com/


- Edit a page, create a new one (20 mins | Markdown)
  - Discuss how the YAML is used in Quire projects compared to how Markdown is used (data vs. text)
  - Update the Markdown of the cover page and preview the results
  - Learn basic markdown format rules and try them out
  - Create a new page in your project (title, type, and weight)


- Work with shortcodes (15 mins | Quire shortcodes)
  - Learn about the basic shortcode syntax
  - Add figures to your project with the figure shortcode: `{{< q-figure id="" >}}`
  - Discuss other shortcodes


- Final comments (15 mins )
  - Customizing the site: cover image, site colors, and themes
  - Output: online, epub and pdf/print

---

Greg Albers, galbers@getty.edu

Sarah Wambold, swambold@gmail.com

Quire Guide & Documentation: https://github.com/gettypubs/quire

Beta Request Form: http://bit.ly/quire-beta

We are looking for people to work with on improving our beta version. In exchange for your feedback on the tool, we'll be available to answer questions and guide you through issues. Plus, we'll be making changes based on your responses, so it's a great opportunity to shape the tool in ways that will suit your needs. If you're interested, please fill out the form at the link above and we'll be in touch with you soon.