---
title: Output & Deploy Your Project
weight: 5700
type: essay
abstract: "Produce online, PDF, and E-Book versions of your publication"
---

## Site Output

*Text to come.*

## E-Book Output

*Text to come.*

## PDF/Print Output

Create a PDF of your project by running `quire pdf` in your command-line shell. An `output.pdf` file will be created and saved to your project’s `static/downloads/` folder. This file will be updated and overwritten each time you run `quire pdf`.

A link to download the PDF is automatically included in the sidebar menu of the onkline version of your project. This link can be removed or modified by making changes to the `resource_link` information in your `data/publication.yml` file.

{{< q-class "box tip" >}}
- You can add a link to your PDF from anywhere in your markdown files by linking to `/downloads/output.pdf`.
{{< /q-class >}}

By default, the PDF is output at full-resolution and with crop marks for professional printing. You may want to manually crop the pages and downsample the file to a smaller file size using a program like Adobe Acrobat if you are only making it available as a digital download.

Quire’s PDF output is generated by [PrinceXML](https://www.princexml.com/) which you should have installed when first [installing Quire](/documentation/install-uninstall/). PrinceXML is free to download for non-commercial use, though it does add a logo watermark to the first page of the PDF ouput. A desktop license can be purchased that will remove the watermark and also allow for commercial use.

### Modifying and Styling the PDF

PrinceXML creates the PDF from the website version of your Quire site using CSS rules. You can modify Quire’s PDF styles using CSS just like you would modify Quire’s online styles. You can read more about styles in general in the [*Style Customization*](/documentation/styles-customization/) chapter of this guide.

There are a number of CSS variables defined in Quire that allow you to adjust various parts of the PDF output, including the page size. The default page size is 8.5 × 11 inches.

In the `themes/default/source/css/variable.scss` file, are a number of key print/PDF-related variables:

```scss
// Print/PDF stylesheet
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
$print-width: 8.5in;
$print-height: 11in;
$print-bleed: .125in;

$print-base-font-size: 8.5pt;
$print-text-color: $black;

$print-splash-color: $off-white;

$print-entry-image-color: $rich-black;
$print-entry-caption-color: $white;
$print-entry-image-display: all; // first | all
```

There are even more PDF-related variables that can be modified in the `source/css/print.scss` file. Including page margins, and rules regarding the running feet and page numbering that are included at the bottom of each PDF page.

{{< q-class "box warning" >}}
- Beware of a couple known issues with variables:
- In `source/css/print.scss` Quire defines both a `$print-base-text-column-width` as well as inner and outer margins. The problem with this is that if you add up the values of the two margins and the text column and they don’t equal the value you have set as a print-width, you can get some unexpected results.
- Also, there is some well-intentioned but ultimately flawed logic built in that can also lead to unexpected results as some margins are automatically adjusted if the print width is less than or equal to 7" and again if it’s less than or equal to 10".
{{< /q-class >}}

Where a variable is not available, you can also add custom CSS to your `static/css/custom.css` file to acheive the desired result. You can target changes *only* to the print output by wrapping your CSS rules in a {{< q-def "media query">}}.

For example, this would hide all `video` elements in the print output:

```css
@media print {
  video {
    display: none;
  }
}
```

Some of the CSS used in styling the PDF is from the CSS Paged Media Specification. This is a set of CSS rules designed specifically to style things in a page-like manner, inlcuding controlling left and right page rules, page numbering, and running feet and heads. There is good information about this [in PrinceXML’s documentation](https://www.princexml.com/doc/paged/).

## Deploy Your Project