---
title: Metadata & Configuration
weight: 6145
type: essay
abstract: "Update crucial information before deploying your publication"
aliases:
  - /documentation/metadata-configuration/
---

Quire uses two {{< q-def "YAML" >}} files as sources of the metadata and to define how the publication works. In this page, we list the YAML properties and values that need to be defined in the two following files: `config.yaml` and `publication.yaml` both of which live in the `content/_data/` directory. By default, both `config.yaml` and `publication.yaml` will be generated when you create a Quire project, however the values of the properties will be either edited or added to the properties listed as we describe below.

You can read more about YAML syntax basics in [*YAML & Markdown*](/docs-v1/fundamentals/#yaml-basics).

{{< q-class "box tip" >}}
- If changes to project YAML don't appear right away when previewing Quire, use Control-C to stop the preview and then run `quire preview` again.
{{< /q-class >}}

## Adjust the Default Publication Settings in config.yaml File

The `config.yaml` file is a required file for Quire. It is used to define a number of key values, including the location of the figure image directory, format for object entry pages, bibliography format, name of navigation buttons, contributor byline styling, and more.

### Accordion Sections

For [accordion sections](/docs-v1/accordions/) created with the `{% accordion %}` shortcode, set the style of the icon used to open the section (`controls`); set the label texts for the section link-copying feature (`copyButton`); and set the label texts for the global controls created with the `{% accordionGlobalControls %}` shortcode (`globalControls`).

```yaml
accordion:
  controls: arrow # arrow | plus-minus
  copyButton:
    ariaLabel: Copy page section link to clipboard
    successText: Copied page section link to clipboard
    symbol: §
  globalControls:
    collapseText: Collapse All
    expandText: Expand All
```

### Analytics

Add your Google Analytics 4 Measurement ID to automatically add Google's tracking codes to every page in your project.

```yaml
analytics:
  googleId: ''
```

### Bylines

Set how [contributor](/docs-v1/contributors/) names are listed in page headers: by name only (`name`); by name with their title and affiliation (`name-title`); or with no listing at all (`false`).

```yaml
bylineFormat: name-title # name | name-title | false
```

### Bibliography

Set whether [bibliographies](/docs-v1/citation-bibliographies/#display-a-bibliography) should automatically be displayed on individual pages (`displayOnPage`); what the label text for those bibliographies is (`heading`); and whether the short form of the reference should also be included with each entry in the bibliography, both for individual page bibliographies and full project bibliographies created with `layout: bibliography` (`displayShort`).

```yaml
bibliography:
  displayOnPage: true
  displayShort: true
  heading: Bibliography
```

### Citations

Set whether [pop-up citations](/docs-v1/citation-bibliographies/#add-in-text-citations) appear as text links or as icons (`popupStyle`); and set the text to be used as a divider between the citation and the page number (`divider`).

```yaml
citations:
  divider: ', '
  popupStyle: text # text | icon
```

### Entry Pages

Set the default layout style (side-by-side or landscape) for [object pages](/docs-v1//collection-catalogues/#create-object-pages) created with `layout: entry` (`sideBySide`); and set the label text for [objects](/docs-v1/collection-catalogues/#creating-an-objectsyaml-file) that appear on those pages and that have a defined `link` (`objectLinkText`).

```yaml
entryPage:
  sideBySide: false
  objectLinkText: View in Collection
```

### EPUB

Set the path to the cover image used in the [EPUB](/docs-v1/epub/) file (`defaultCoverImage`); and the name of the directory EPUB source files are generated in (`outputDir`).

```yaml
epub:
  defaultCoverImage: 'epub-cover.png'
  outputDir: '_epub'
```

### Footnotes

Set the default icon for [footnote](/docs-v1/page-content/#linked-footnotes) backlinks.

```yaml
footnotes:
  backlinkSymbol: '↩'
```

### Figures

Set the default directories for figure images; and determine whether images should open in a lightbox modal when clicked (`enableModal`).

```yaml
figures:
  assetDir: '/_assets/'
  enableModal: true
  imageDir: '/_assets/images'
```

### License Icons

Set whether Creative Commons should automatically be displayed along with [copyright and license information](#copyright--license) as generated by Quire.

```yaml
licenseIcons: true
```

### Localization

Set the project’s primary language, using the [ISO 639-1 language code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639_language_codes) and an optional [ISO 3166-1 country code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_3166_country_codes).

```yaml
localization:
  defaultLocale: en-us
```

### Menu

Set the appearance of the contents list in the [sidebar menu](/docs-v1/contents-menu/#sidebar-menu).

```yaml
menuType: full # full | brief
```

### Navigation

Set the label text for the navigation buttons that appear at the bottom of each page.

```yaml
navigation:
  nextButtonText: Next
  prevButtonText: Back
```

### Page Titles

Set the text to be used as a divider between the `label` and `title` on pages throughout your site. While this divider may not be visible on the pages themselves, it is often used in other contexts, such as the table of contents and page metadata.

```yaml
pageTitle:
  labelDivider: '. '
```

### PDF

Set the base filename for PDF files created by Quire (`filename`); set the directory within the `_site` directory where created PDFs will be saved (`outputDir`); set the download links, cover page, and output for individual page PDFs (`pagePDF`); and set the output of full project PDFs (`publicationPDF`).

```yaml
pdf:
  filename: 'publication'
  outputDir: '/_assets/downloads' 
  pagePDF:
    accessLinks:
      - header: true 
        label: 'PDF'
      - footer: true
        label: 'Download this page'
    coverPage: true
    output: false
  publicationPDF:
    output: true
```

### Ref Links

Set the speed at which [figure sequences and rotations](/docs-v1/sequences/) move when clicked to using the `{% ref %}` shortcode.

```yaml
ref:
  sequenceTransition: 30
```

### Search

Set whether full-text search is enabled on the online site.

```yaml
searchEnabled: true
```

### Table of Contents

Set the text to be used as a divider between the page title and page contributor(s). While this divider may not be visible on the pages themselves, it is often used in other contexts, such as the table of contents and page metadata.

```yaml
tableOfContents:
  contributorDivider: ' — '
```

## Add and Edit Important Metadata in publication.yaml File

The `publication.yaml` file in the `content/_data/` directory is *the* source of metadata for your publication. While the only value that is truly required is the one for the property `title`, it is a good idea to fill out the `publication.yaml` file as completely as possible. Many of the properties are used in the metadata, which is automatically included in the underlying code of every page of the online edition of your publication to support {{< q-def "Search Engine Optimization (SEO)" >}} and general discovery.

Some key areas are summed up below, and match headings in the `publication.yaml` file itself, but there is a detailed documentation of individual properties and their values in the [*For Developers*](/docs-v1/for-developers/) section of this guide.

### Publication Base URL

The base URL is set to `http://localhost:8080` by default. When you are ready to deploy your project update this value to the final URL where your publication will live (its permalink). The URL should include `http://` or `https://` as appropriate. See [*Deploy Your Project*](/docs-v1/site-deploy) for more information. 

### Title & Description

Of the possible properties in this section, `title`, and the optional `subtitle` and `reading_line` are the most important. If your title is particularly long, the `short_title` property can be used to provide an alternative for the navigation elements of the online book where long titles will otherwise be truncated.

It is also a good idea to include both `one_line` and `full` descriptions, as these are used in the publication SEO metadata and often on the *Cover* and *About* or *Copyright* pages.

### Publication Details

The values of `pub_date` and `language` should be filled out. The value of `pub_date` must follow a YYYY-MM-DD format (the {{< q-def "ISO 8601 format" >}}) and should be the projected final publication date. The value of `language` should be a 2-letter {{< q-def "ISO 639-1 language code" >}}. The default value is `en` (English) and other languages can be used.

There’s an optional `pub_type` property for which the possible values are `book`, `journal-periodical`, or `other`. If you use the value `book`, it is recommended you also include an {{< q-def "ISBN" >}} as a standard `identifier`. If you use the value `journal-periodical`, you should include information for the {{< q-def "ISSN" >}}, `series_periodical_name`, and `series_issue_number` attributes if possible.

Both {{< q-def "ISBN" >}} and {{< q-def "ISSN" >}} are considered if you want libraries to catalog your publication. Along with `isbn` and `issn`, `doi` and `uuid` are also supported so you can add these attributes as identifiers:

```yaml
identifier:
  isbn: 978-1-12345-678-9
  uuid: 4a1b423d-6d5a-469b-bd5f-b498182ad6ca
```

{{< q-def "DOIs" >}} are widely used in academic contexts to support citation while {{< q-def "UUIDs" >}} serve to identify information in computer systems.

{{< q-class "box tip" >}}

- Note that the `isbn` and `issn` identifiers used here are for the online edition specifically. Identifiers for other specific editions (PDF/Print, EPUB, and MOBI) can be defined separately with the appropriate `resource_link`. See the *Formats, Resources & Links* section below for more.

{{< /q-class >}}

Lastly, Quire supports publications with multiple publishers, but at least one `publisher` should be listed with a `name`, `location`, and `url` attributes. In particular, this is used in the citation features as well as in search engine metadata. 

### Contributors

Every publication should have at least one `contributor`. The `contributor` item `type` can have one of three values: `primary`, `secondary`, or `project-team`. The `primary` contributors are those who would show up on the *Cover*, *Menu*, and *Title Page* of a publication, and may include authors, editors, translators, and others. Contributors should, at a minimum, be listed with a `first_name` and `last_name` (or alternately just a `full_name`).

Additional attributes include `title`, `affiliation`, `bio`, `url`, and `image`. An `id` value can be added to the contributor information and referenced in the page YAML of individual essays or catalogue entries to indicate contributions by a particular author.

Optional `contributor_as_it_appears` and `additional_contributors` values allow for more fine-grained control in the way contributors are listed. It could be, for example, something like "Edited by Rose Valland and Denis Diderot". Even when using `contributor_as_it_appears`, the contributors should still be individually listed as contributors (with a value of `primary`) for search engine legibility.

The editors, designers, developers, and others who worked on the title may be listed as contributors with the `project-team` value. This information is usually then listed on the *About* and *Copyright* pages of the publication.

Read more about this matter in the [*Contributors*](/docs-v1/contributors/) chapter of this guide.

### Copyright & License

You should include a `copyright` line for your publication, and, optionally, `license` information if you are distributing the publication {{< q-def "Open Access" >}}.

A simple {{< q-def "Copyright" >}} statement would typically be formatted as "© 2019 Author Name".

{{< q-class "box tip" >}}

- The `copyright` field does support Markdown to allow for multiple paragraphs and other formatting.

{{< /q-class >}}

Open access licensing typically means applying one of seven {{< q-def "Creative Commons Licenses" >}} to your publication. This is in addition to your copyright statement.

Note, an open Creative Commons license does not replace or supersede copyright in a work, it instead says that the copyright holder is licensing (allowing) others to make use of the work in an open way.

To use a Creative Commons license fill in the `name`, `abbreviation`, `url`, and `scope` values of the license property. The `scope` value should be either `full`, `text-only`, or `some-exceptions` and will determine the way the license is worded on your site. To override the wording and link language use the `online_text` and `pdf_ebook_text` attributes.

If the `abbreviation` attribute matches one of the seven Creative Commons Licenses, an icon will automatically be included, otherwise you can use the `icon` attribute to point to a specific image file in your images directory.

### Formats, Resources, & Links

A publication can have multiple `resource_link` properties, each with the `type` of `other-format`, `related-resource`, or `footer-link`. These items will appear in the sidebar menu of your publication.

- `other-format` will be where you can list the PDF, EPUB, and Paperback editions of your publication under the `name` attribute.

- `related-resource` are for additional items you want to point readers to.

- `footer-link` are links that appear at the bottom of the sidebar menu and often link to things like privacy policies, your own *About* page, or social media profiles.

`resource_link` properties can also be internal pages of the publication or files from your publication, or can point to external resources or other websites. The attributes `type`, `name` (how the resource link will be listed in your publication), and `url` are required.

To facilitate machine readability, it is a good idea to also include `link_relation` and `media_type` attributes from the {{< q-def "IANA" >}} lists if applicable ones for your particular resource are available.

```yaml
- type: other-format
    name: EPUB
    media_type: application/epub+zip
    link_relation: alternate
    url: /downloads/my-project.epub
  - type: other-format
    name: Paperback
    media_type: print
    link_relation: alternate
    url: https://shop.getty.edu/products/my-project
  - type: footer-link
    name: About
    link_relation: about
    url: /about/
```

### Subjects

Any number of subjects can be added to the publication in order to aid search engine discoverability. They may be formatted as simple keywords, {{< q-def "BISAC Subject Codes" >}}, or linked data using the {{< q-def "Getty Vocabularies" >}}, including AAT, ULAN, and TGN.

For each subject, indicate the `type`: `keyword`, `bisac`, or `getty`. For `keyword`, you only need to include a single comma-separated list under the `name` attribute.

```yaml
subjects:
  - type: keyword
    name: French painting, 19th Century, Delacroix
```

For all others, each subject should be listed individually and should also include an `identifier` attribute. For `bisac` subjects the `identifier` is the BISAC code, for the Getty vocabularies, it’s the vocabulary’s semantic URL.

```yaml
subjects:
  - type: bisac
    name: "ART / European"
    identifier: ART015030
  - type: getty
    name: "Romantic"
    identifier: http://vocab.getty.edu/aat/300172863
  - type: getty
    name: "Eugène Delacroix"
    identifier: http://vocab.getty.edu/ulan/500115509
```

### Revision History

A history of post-publication revisions made to the publication typically appears on the *About* page. Any number of revision history property items can be added and each must include the attributes `date` and a `summary` of changes made on that date. The `summary` attribute supports Markdown formatting and would typically be in list form.

If you are using {{< q-def "GitHub" >}} or a similar service for more granular version control, you may also include the `repository_url` in this section. And in this case the revision history collected in the `publication.yaml` can act as an overview.
